after 5 months of conflict between
Israel and Hamas the UN is warning that
at least a quarter of gaza's population
is at risk of famine since the Hamas
attacks of October the 7th Israel has
periodically blocked the flow of
humanitarian Aid into the Gaza Strip the
UN says it is trying to find a way to
deliver more supplies using an Israeli
military Road bordering the territory
the US Egypt Jordan and the United Arab
Emirates are airdropping Aid into the
territory but officials say air drops
are a last resort and aren't enough to
prevent
starvation waiting for food to fall from
the sky this is what an A Drop in Gaza
looks like each one sets off a race and
there's no prize for the
losers since the morning the plane has
been dropping eight and I've run after
it we went to the sea to the east to the
West we went to Al I got
nothing according to the UN is Isel has
blocked some humanitarian Aid sent by
land to Gaza they say Aid drops are far
from the best solution we have to have a
a plan that allows us to you know
prevent famine that we need to
significantly scale up the humanitarian
assistance in there and we have to get
up at least 300 trucks a day right now
we're lucky if we're getting about 150
the few resources that are getting in
are not enough to feed the millions who
are in
at least 20 children have died of famine
in the territory so
far we eat breakfast I bring each of my
daughters a piece of plain bread to make
them feel a little full we can't eat
anything else there's no healthy food
all our food brings us
diseases there is no food to enable me
to breastfeed my child and I can't buy
her
milk according to the h Lo run Gaza
Health Ministry the Palestinian death
toll has now reached more than
30,000 without a rapid humanitarian
solution for starvation that number
could soon
climb Salam alen founded the
humanitarian Aid organization team
Humanity he joins us on the line from
Gaza welcome to DW I understand you
arrived there just over 24 hours ago
what have you seen in that
time
yeah um what I've seen is um people
asking for help everywhere where we go
uh today we've been in RAF we were in we
were near the north Kaza and we seen
children uh like without shoes most of
the children don't have shoes we seen
people asking for food diers a lot of
children need baby milk like this whole
city needs everything that is possible
to help these people and what have you
brought with you to Gaza how are you
helping so we have sent trucks with aid
from Egypt until now we have sent 120
trucks trucks is on the way trucks
arrived and we're doing our best to
distribute uh the food the aid we
brought uh there is hygiene packs there
is uh baby milk all kind of help uh that
is needed in Gaza right
now now the UN estimates that most of
gaza's population that's around 2.2
million people are on the brink of
famine some trucks they say are are
getting through and the US and Egypt
Jordan and the United Arab Emirates
they're all airdropping humanitarian Aid
into the territory why isn't that
enough because there's a lot of people
like you said there's over two million
people that really need help with
everything uh today uh we saw how people
were asking we're just walking the
inside the refugee camp and uh people
were begging us for help like everybody
came and just asked we need this we need
this we need this so I understand um
that the need is very huge here and of
course it's not enough just playing we
need trucks we need many many trucks uh
we need a daily 500 trucks to uh get
going through the day um it's the
situation is horrible like we saw a uh
six toilets six toilets for the whole
refugee camp where there was over 18,000
people six toilets is not enough so
people are are making their own toilet
so it's it's horrible I cannot even
explain the situation it's really really
bad here and how were you able to get
access to to Gaza when so many other
organizations have been turned away and
as you say one of the reasons there
isn't enough is that there aren't enough
trucks getting
through so one thing is sending trucks
the other thing is receiving it and
distributed it in uh in way in human way
uh as you heard when trucks going inside
Raza uh they've been looted and things
disappearing and uh what we are trying
to do is help as much as possible that
those trucks will be uh delivered uh the
aid will be delivered to the people that
is in huge need of this and uh as we
know uh you can also send trucks from
Egypt or from other countries you don't
need to be here and uh the only way we
did it is just officially and ask for
for approval and the Israeli government
gave us approval to get inside and
distribute
a well thank you for uh joining us and
talking us uh through that terrible
situation Salim Aline from the
humanitarian Aid organization team
humanity and for more on this Let's
cross to journalist bik sladin in Tel
Aviv bik you've been talking to people
inside Gaza what are you hearing from
them about the situation
there well Jihad um to say that the
situation is very bad is understatement
because of the lack of the humanitarian
Aid and the food scarcity all over Gaza
the source is telling me that prices has
jumped for food and medicine 500 to 600%
so what was a one shekele is now 600
isra shekele so some people actually
paid all what they have in order to buy
some food for the families um he's also
telling me that people are literally
killing each other they are attacking
each other with knives while fighting
all over flour and food and that
situation actually made some sort of
gangs all over Gaza so groups of people
turned into gangs uh to steal as much as
possible of the aid that comes in
because there's not many for everyone
and to secure the food and the medicine
for their own group but some also are
selling that in order to have some money
to buy uh for the future so families
that were uh suppressed by Hamas during
their rule so we're talking about the
Clans uh uh during hamas's rule were
suppressed but now because Hamas is not
president they are back again each wants
to secure food and medicine for their
own people and the latest airdrop that
was from the Au uh sorry from the UAE it
was fine that's what they're telling me
but the previous ones we're talking
about the air drop from the US in
partnership with the jordanians they
didn't know why the air dropping was on
the seashore they're telling me that
many of the aid was actually carried by
the wind inside the sea uh sarcastically
they're saying that the fish in the sea
got more of what we have gotten so the
situation is very very bad and that's an
understand well South Africa has filed a
new request to the international court
of justice what have the reactions been
from inside
Israel well not many officials talked
about this but uh we've seen that the
firm Ministry actually asked the court
to dismiss that uh request um as we see
that this is the second time that not
many uh you know uh uh titles here and
talks about what South Africa is trying
to do uh in the ha because Israel maybe
knows right now that the court can't
actually have any uh uh abilities to
stop the attack on Rafa or call for a
ceasefire so right now we have only the
forign ministry asking the icj to just
dismiss this request something that
probably is going to happen the
journalist balik sline there in Tel Aviv
for us thank
you